Okay, so let's look at
logistic regression curves and
think about how r is fitting the data.
So here I'm going to use
the package manipulate.
And i have my beta2 and
my beta1, set here.
And so
here's my logistic regression curve,
looks like an s kind of, and here's beta1.
So let's see what happens as I render it.
Or as I change it.
Notice as I get it closer up to higher
values, it becomes more peaked, okay?
And then if I go negative,
it actually flips around, okay?
And then my beta0 curve,
what happens to this?
It just shifts it along.
It's hard to tell because
I'm keeping the don't.
The x-axis here is always the same, but
it's just shifting the s-curve
to the left or to the right.
Let's think about what r is
doing when it's trying to fit
logistic regression curves.
Imagine I have a bunch of zeros and
ones, on my x-axis one is up here, and
zero is down there.
So imagine for this regressor,
this x-regressor here, I have a bunch of
zeros down there, but maybe and
an occasional one, some, but
then over here, I have a lot more ones,
and then right here I have some zeros,
okay?
So what r is trying to do, okay?
So it knows as I head,
we can see as I head to larger x values,
it become increasingly likely
that my outcome is a one.
As I head towards smaller x values,
it becomes increasingly likely
that my outcome is a zero.
So what r is trying to do is
trying to move the s-curve.
It's trying all different
sorts of s-curves, right?
All different sorts of logistic
curves to find the one that best
matches up with the associated
probabilities, okay?
And that's all that logistic
regression is trying to do.
And it does it with the principle
of so-called maximum likelihood.
Which again is something if
you take the inference class
from the data science specialization,
you'll know a little bit more about.
So just imagine these
points staying there, and
I'm going to get rid of them, okay?
And then just see what r
has under its disposal
is to be able to move these two sliders,
and
then define the s-curve that
fits that data the best, okay?
And so that's all that
logistic regression is doing.
And this function,
this the fitted function out, right?
This is the function.
E to the Beta not, plus beta 1x over one,
plus e to the beta not,
plus beta 1x,
that's the logistic regression model but
converted back to the probability scale,
okay?
So, I hope this helps you understand
a little bit of behind the scenes,
what logistic regression is trying to do.